---
{ "dateTime": "2021-03-14", "type": "long", "title": "Why Name Is T" }
---

Here’s a story. Back when I was an insufferable teenager (and believe me, I was), I kept a livejournal. It still exists, but nothing any of us did as teenagers should be available for public consumption, so it’s currently under lock and key. But there were several of us in those days who kept such journals, it was sort of proto-social-networking. Every day (ish), we’d write a few sentences to summarize our lives. One thing which strikes me looking back at my own is how incredibly straightforward I was about other people who I knew could read it. I have no idea (thank goodness) how teenagers use social media these days, but I hope my practice of calling out people who annoyed me in person on the public internet is not how they still do it.

Anyway.

Somewhere in there, I started ending posts with a single letter T. This didn’t seem particularly important, it was just a way of signing off. At the time, I still generally went by “Thomas,” and T was much shorter (as am I). But then… a girl happened. She appeared in the comments of my livejournal and called me “T.” And in person, she did as well. So that was the end of that.

In 2004, before any of this, I’d been with my bandmates at a music festival in Nebraska, where we saw some comedy duo called “Mad Dogs and Englishmen” perform. They sold a novelty “t”-shirt - a single yellow lowercase letter t on a purple shirt. I bought it because it made me laugh. But fast forward a year, and suddenly I had a shirt that said “t”, a nascent blog where I signed off the same way, and a girl who called me that. An acronym was born.

For the whole of the band’s existence, that was how I referred to myself. I can still remember vividly turning up at a studio, and having someone open a door and asking “are you ‘T’?” I felt so proud. A couple of years later, the band dissolved as we all entered our twenties, and I tried my luck at stand-up comedy. I didn’t especially intend to carry it forward, but I got on stage for the first time in front of a handful of drunken revelers at the Monday night open mic comedy night at Hodi’s Half Note in Fort Collins, and standing at the microphone, said “my name is...” and suddenly realized I’d never called myself Thom (or Thomas for that matter) in front of a crowd. So, my name was T.

And it continued. For three years, I had the best time in the Northern Colorado stand up scene. Four or five nights a week, I’d be either at an open spot or invited onto a bill somewhere to tell jokes. And, every time, “good evening, my name is T.” I discovered after a while that the other comics didn’t know what my name was. They’d all call me “T”, and in a couple of cases when we had to deal with payment (which had our real names on checks), I suddenly had to dox myself as otherwise no one could match the name on my credit card.

I’ve met people in office jobs who give themselves a quirky name. As far as my friends are concerned, “Thom” is quirky enough, having been Thomas for a decade beforehand. When I had to pick a name in Discord at the start of the pandemic, I noticed most others didn’t go by their real name, so I thought about how to identify myself, and, thinking back to many sweaty late nights in northern Colorado bars reconstituted as comedy clubs, it seemed easy to introduce myself, as I did back then. Good evening, myNameIsT.
